---
type: concept
title: 2026 04 20 Sarah Paine How Russia Sabotaged Chinas Rise
author: Dwarkesh Patel
source: 'https://youtu.be/RH_ycZYH8-s'
created: '2026-04-20T19:43:53.000Z'
tags:
  - Dwarkesh Podcast
  - Sarah Paine
  - youtube
  - 中俄關係
  - 中國
  - 俄羅斯
  - 史達林
  - 地緣政治
  - 普丁
---

# Sarah Paine  How Russia sabotaged Chinas rise

> **TLDR:** 莎拉・潘恩 Sarah Paine 受訪於 Dwarkesh Patel Podcast，談俄羅斯如何系統性遏制中國崛起長達150年。涵蓋史達林的策略、毛澤東與史達林的博弈、1964年中共核武後的權力逆轉、珍寶島戰役、中蘇決裂，以及普丁今日在烏克蘭的戰略失誤如何讓俄羅斯淪為中國的資源附庸。

---

當它拍了一個美食的圖形 因為當它大量的經驗 以為是用它們放在想象中的東西 對方它們也會設定或是放鬧 他們不會讓它們來 在一間沙漿的地方 Chankai Shack goes roaring up China 它們在水上在海埋水上 因而 Johns法院改善成致力, 因而必有對於人的基礎, 因而主要是在帶權, 將作其他, 無論如何, 因而活動, 啦, 嚇唤, 必要是隨便了, 對於其他人, 致制定, 內地方面, 致受説, 詳點, 而還有, 並所有, 是否是不是是讓女性的話, 他們碰不到他, 押了神連沒有。 是否是被人員消失了, 我會再多留在這裡。 這會是中國的大幣。 如果在這裡的地圣, 我會比較多買蝦子的蝦子, 這才是一開始我們會把蝦子買入什麼蝦子, 然後我們就說說蝦子, 所以我覺得,我的蝦子也很像是鎖住了, 那是什麼,我喜歡蝦子的蝦子, 我看來的是它, 這是一個一個的蝦子有的蝦子,  Rabia Di γ事omorphism in mid-19th century  nightmares on the time with a snake lish from the Chinese sphere of influence  in part in the Russians' sphere in the 1920s.  So it's fun to talk about this particular topic.  But before I get going, I'm going to do some terminology.  I'm going to use the word Russia to refer  to these Aras Soviet and modern periods,  the same way that you use France to describe its many monarchies 原因是在老實說,他們中文的詳細不相信他們,所謂、真相或不喜歡THATIC 像是人類的深圳,但中國的問題是一些內容。 Zovia Union but it turns out they were temporary and Russia is the enduring thing.  that's in terminology  but before I speculate on what the future is going to look like  our only database that we have is whatever happened  from this second backwards  what people call history but it's just whatever is in the past that's it that's our database  and so i'm gonna look at when Russia was strong in China was weak from the mid 19th century 向林老臣的志祥 十年年代內有一項 加冰加入新北京 加冰時搬過新北京 加冰時會出現一會的 越來越達人 亡烈時 加冰時 加冰時 你對當時的汁量 增加時間 就會開始 把這種打進化 重量 但放下自己的 要求 畫面 就是說 各樣的 也會過了 或他們 So in the 18th century China was strong, Russia was weak, but that one doesn't last very long.  And both empires fall out the rules for continental empire.  And if you want to survive in a continental world, both that's what both of them historically have been.  You don't want to have two front wars because you have multiple neighbors, any one of them that can come in at any time.  And if they gang up on you, that's troublesome. You take on one at a time.  Also, you don't want any great powers on the borders.  This is the fundamental problem with their relationship.  Is because today's friend can be tomorrow's foe, and that is truly problematic.  So what do you do to solve that problem?  When you take on your neighbors, sequentially set them up to failure, you destabilize the rising and just the failing  and you set up buffers zones in between.  And you wait the opportune moment to pounce and absorb.  And if that is Vladimir Putin's game.  But if you play this game, you're surrounding yourself by failing states, because you're either busy destabilizing them or ingesting them.  So the curious might ask how to rush on China, unlucky with all the very dysfunctional places that surround them or are they complicit.  Also, there are no enduring alliances in this world, because the neighbors figure it out that the hegemonic power offers nothing but trouble in the long term.  And there's also no counsel on when to stop expanding.  So both Russia and China are known for overextending overdoing it.  And then that may help explain some of their periodic implosions over their long and bloody histories.  Very high mortality rates before you dismiss this paradigm.  You've seen it operating in real time, in Syria and Ukraine.  There are people who do this.  And it also explains why all those ancient ruins or ruins, this sort of warfare is ruinous.  But anyway, it lies at the basis of many of the great civilizations of Europe.  That's just how they did things.  All right.  So I'm going to start my story in the mid 19th century.  When the Chinese were beset by a whole series of rebellions that just about wrecked them.  And the Russians take advantage of all of this.  Remember the second rule of continental empires, no great power neighbors.  And the Russians repeatedly derailed the rise of China.  By scripting the Chinese to do things that are remarkably detrimental to Chinese interests, but pretty good for Russian interests.  And it takes the Chinese a long time to figure it out.  They have governments coming and going in this period.  It's a difficult period.  But they eventually figure it out by the time Mao reunifies China in 1949.  So I'm going to talk through each of those examples in turn, starting with a really big one.  Which are the opium wars.  This is when Britain and France are coming at China in order to force China to trade on their terms.  And this corresponds with the two biggest rebellions of China's period of rebellions.  The typing and the n-n-n-mur-bellion.  So here's a big chart that's a simplified chart.  They actually start in the late 18th centuries.  The rebellions in this nomar.  These are civil wars.  Either people are like minority people who want out of empire.  They want to succeed.  Other people who want to overthrow the government in Beijing.  The peak period is in red.  The really big ones are in white.  So China has got the two front war problem.  It's got Europeans coming at them,  plus all of this.  In fact, the Chinese have so many fronts that are,  know how to deal with it.  So the Russians come on into the Chinese and say,  we can deal with the British and French for you.  And solve that problem.  Then you can deal with all the internal stuff.  However, we need to have you sign a couple of pieces of paper for us.  The Treaty of Igon of 1858, the Treaty of Peking of 1860.  What do they do?  They seed to Russia large swaths of territory in Central Asia and the Pacific coastline.  And the Qing Dynasty, they were vague on geography.  They're beset by these other things.  They don't understand that Europeans think these pieces of paper are permanent things.  And they figured that once they put their house back in order,  they're going to come back and get the territory later.  Okay, the second example of ruinous Russian mediation.  That is going to keep China in turmoil.  So in the first sign of Japanese war, Japan,  Japan, China boots them from their tributary in Korea.  And then the Japanese also want some territory on the Laodong peninsula.  It isn't labeled very well there.  But anyhow, what the Chinese do is they go to the Russians to help them counterbalance Japan.  So that Japan doesn't take this territory, Chinese territory in the Asian mainland.  Russia gets its buddies, France, and Germany, the so-called Triple Intervention,  to gang up in Japan and Japan looks at it.  Three great powers, I don't think so.  So they bail.  So from the Chinese point of view, so far so good, except what the Russians  promptly do is take for themselves the very territory that just been denied to Japan  and the story gets worse.  Because all the European powers are many of them,  plus Japan come in and they carve out big concession areas throughout China.  So the China is not going to have full sovereignty over its territory for several generations.  So instead of one relatively small Japanese concession area, they get foreigners everywhere.  And so think about second rule, continental empire, no great power neighbors.  Not happening, well this is going on.  Well the Bolsheviks come to power and then they're going to apply these rules as well.  When they do come to power, they're very weak because Russia has been devastated by World War I.  And then the Bolsheviks don't win their own bitter civil war until 1922.  And so then as now, they relied on a really cheap but incredibly effective strategy of strategic communication.  The Russians really understand other people's emotional life and what sets them at odds with each other.  And they know just how to serve out their propaganda that sets people at each other's throat.  And they're going to, their propaganda is going to help the Chinese really despise the Japanese and the Europeans.  While Russia's even greater predations, the ones you've already seen go unnoticed.  So here's Lev Karahon. He was a deputy foreign minister.  In 1919, he sends a misive his Karahon manifesto to the Chinese Foreign Minister and he says, hey, we're not imperialists, we're Bolsheviks.  We're going to return all the lands from those unequal treaties and be your friend from evermore.  Unlike all the other evil imperialist powers, we're not like that.  anymore and then the Chinese are looking at this and thinking  wow, here were the Bolsheviks who have gotten rid of their impartialistic  government, they are putting together their shattered land and so this offer  is hope to the Chinese that they can do likewise and it is a model potentially  to follow and I choose to mentor who might help them.  Except here's the detail.  When their Bolsheviks started doing better in their civil war, they really  dialed back what they're offer was. 火花家實的 今夜差不多 壞了主題 爸爸總共在疑惨 各種偶爾廷法式 說了 新年紀 國海的特朗普 新年紀 國海外他們 他們的記者 現在他們 他們派到了 理我 現在他們 現在他們 最新中旅 他們 在香港 這些 他們 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 美國裡面 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 共產黨 1950s after the Westerners had returned almost all of their concession areas and this is not trivial and when we think of concession areas in the age of imperialism and China  you think of British ones, right? Hong Kong  while Hong Kong isn't actually very big  the reason you know about Hong Kong is that it makes lots of money or at least it used to  and the Russian air concession areas were huge, didn't make money, nothing, what else is new  but the Russians had by far the largest concession area of any other country  but from the Carhan manifesto is the origin of the myth of Sino-Soviet friendship  that the Russians somehow treated the Chinese nicely  and the foreign ministry officials who had known better  their government is overthrown within the decade and presumably these documents just gather dust and the archives  alright my fourth example of derailing China's rise  concerns the first United Front between the Chinese Nationalist and Chinese Communist Party  here's the leader of the Nationalist Party and also leader of its army's general leesimo, Shankai Shack  well he led the Northern Expedition reunifying China, at least nominally by either defeating or co-opting all those  war laws there and see the different colors of the major war laws were  and previous South China attempts to do this or or to secede from China one of the other  had failed for lack of a proficient military but Russia changes that it provides aid arms and expertise and structures and things  to found the Huang Poem military academy which is in Canton or Guangzhou  and that institution is going to educate the officers both communist and nationalist who would lead  not only this but some of their civil war area officers that make this reunification of China possible  but the Russians had a price give them a given the Nationalist the aid but the Nationalist then  have to let the communist into the Nationalist Party that's what the United Front is  so this all coincides with a bitter succession struggle in Russia this is the problem with dictatorships  they really don't do succession well it's why elections are so convenient  instead you have Stalin and Trotsky going at it of which one was going to be the big cheese  Stalin is all about socialism in one country he thinks that Russia ought to focus on its own internal development  whereas Trotsky says nonsense we need to focus on world revolution because only if their sister revolutions abroad can ours survive  so while this is all going on the Chinese Communist really want to get out of that united front why  because it puts them in close proximity to the army which is controlled by the Nationalist  and they're getting worried whether they're about to get killed and the Russians say no no no no  it's good good good good you stay in that united front so they do  shankai shanko's roaring up China has shown you the map he reaches his pretty home base in Shanghai  spies and he turns his guns on the communist and just massacres them and draws  and this is when Mao has to think of a rural strategy to power because the urban strategy is no longer feasible  well once this happens Stalin can use it to just trounce Trotsky in the internal power struggle  because it's look say revolution one country doesn't work abroad and a lot of Chinese died proving Stalin's point  alright another example where Russia literally derails rise of China there's a railway system there  we're going to talk rails in the Russo Japanese war of 1994-1905 Japan wins it and gets from Russia  which built all these things in Chinese territory the southern half of that railway net in lieu of an indemnity  Japan invest massively in railways infrastructure and apparently in local politicians  but the ruling warlord apparently wasn't sufficiently attentive to Japanese needs so they assassinated in 1928  so this is his son John Shailong who the following year in 1929 decides he wants his railways back from Russia  what is Russia do it's not either version of the Karahan manifesto the Russians deploy over 100,000 troops tanks airplanes of works  and just pound this man and so they the Russians keep their railways  so if you want to delay the rise of China that sort of thing delays the rise of China  but now for the first rule of continental empire no two front wars yet you go move fast forward to the 1930s and Stalin thinks he may very well face  to front war with Germans in the West and Japanese in the East why would he think such thoughts this thing  the anti-comment term pact commentary is short for communist international it is the Soviet outreach program  and it's signed in 1936 between the Japanese and the Germans and Stalin goes oh they're after me  and so he plays every one of his China cards and he holds lots of them  because then this is also part if you want to disintegrate the neighbors in order to delay their rise  well then you fund all sides of their civil wars and any side in between because you just want them to go at it  so he plays every card he's got and what he wants are the nationalists to stop fighting the communist vice versa  and unite to fight the Japanese and they're willing to do this provided Stalin provides conventional aid which he does  but they think he's also going to provide soldiers they don't get it once they're in Russia is out of this thing  and Stalin's plan his script for the Chinese and Japanese works beautifully  because when the nationalists unite in the second united front with the communist going back to the dark side  the Japanese are apoplectic and this is when they do the massive escalation in 1937  and they are off to over extension into parts due south of Russia  so this two front Japanese German war never materialized, Stalin very successful, Chinese less so  because the Chinese are fighting the Japanese so the Russians don't have to and that comes to the price of millions of deaths, millions of refugees  that does indeed derail China's rise yet again  next example per the Yalta agreement, Russia finally gets in the war in Asia about time  in the very final weeks this august storm when the Russians deploy like 1.5 million soldiers  it's one of the largest military operations of World War II  and then they rapidly take Manchuria and they also do that would be the normal thing  but here's the abnormal thing  they also take away Manchuria's industrial base that would not normally be what you do to someone  they take 83% of the electrical power equipment taken home to Russia  not turning lights on in Manchuria, 86% of mining, 82% of cement making 80% of metalworking equipment  plus they take 640,000 Japanese POWs to be slave labor for decades if they ever get home at all  and they also take the northern islands which are still under dispute today  but if you think about it, if you're going to do indemnities or reparations whatever this is  China had been fighting Japan in one former or another for 15 long years  Russia comes in that the cameo performance at the very end  so if they're indemnities to be paid for whatever Japan did in this war surely China  not Russia should have been the recipient for all this stuff  in addition, another example  so not only does Stalin walk away with the industrial base but he walks away with Mongolia as well  how does that work?  you also agreement also stipulates that the status quo shall be maintained in Mongolia  so then you have to look at what was the status quo  it was called Russian sphere of influence of the north, Chinese continuing control in the south  that Mongolia which had always been both those places had been part of the Qing Empire  never been part of the Russian Empire  and moreover Stalin had already taken Tonotuva in 1944  it looks small in this map but it's bigger than England had lots of gold  which the Soviets have monetized long ago  so if you add up all the territory that the Russians took from the Chinese sphere of influence  from the 1858 Treaty of Igun and 1860 Treaty of Peking  fast forward to attaching out of Mongolia from the Chinese sphere of influence  here's what it really is, it's greater than all US territory east of the Mississippi  this is not your normal land ground  so talk about 最後我會教你 最細緻的 後還會看到 食品都Música保養為 第二位就會  winners查到後來找什麼 他們坦白以為 剛停留在昨天 台灣又你要修用 令前面追天 還有 coordinate撞 其命下三佛 而且實際速度 開始做一些 扣些 含麒 黃蘭 是連蔓斯頂蓮二朝 攻擊力率 抬裇搞 Maps 來講 蔓斯頂蓮二朝 這些食物 打oring和愛奈斯  mêmes 只是記者 想把創造這討論 合作 而ChComi has probably traded that industry for all the conventional aid that they got  and the Nationalists are trading that and also  产丐孔s in independence for a promise from Stalin  98 to the Communist which proplements the he promptly breaks  So maos starts to figure out that something is up here  So when he's on a roll in his offenses in the Civil War  there's really better fighting  而 the real movement of the last phase of the post-1940 phase of the Chinese Civil War is a 1948 大理捜就出不明白 我想它是融上壓制嘛 它會在燃噪東西 坦白說 一隻叫做 去骨,立即將來在燃噪了 它會偷摸它 然後握著它 因為在燃噹,它是用來用這個 大家使用燃噹的燃噹 讓它有一個火力 在煎肉被煎開 它等一下發煮它 And here's my 10th example which is the Korean War.  If you look at the Korean War, the first year is a war of movement.  There's up and down, up and down, the peninsula, it's unbelievable how much movement there is.  But then it stalemates for the last two years.  And you think, well, what's going on?  Why don't they settle the war sooner?  Because both sides are taking incredible losses.  Well, here's how it goes.  Once China intervenes in the Korean War.  And once they halt various offensive to start peace talks,  the Chinese do incredible tunnel work and probably the North Koreans as well.  And building an incredible tunnel system.  So it means the South Koreans and the UN forces are never going to get anywhere near the Soviet border ever again.  And from that moment on, Stalin thinks he's got a low risk high reward strategy  where he's going to weaken the United States and delay the rise of China.  So what's not to love about fighting to the last Chinese in Korea?  Stalin thinks it's a great.  And it's going to retard Chinese development.  It's also because China is so isolated by this war.  It has no international friends.  But Russia is going to tie China to Russia ever more firmly.  And give Russia a breathing space to rebuild after World War II.  While its Western enemies are wasting time in Korea.  So if you put it all together, Chinese Civil War, Korean War,  Russia's on and off again, aid to the right to different sides in the Civil War,  his double dealing with bottom of them.  And what happened with Adam Angolian and the Manchurian industrial base,  Stalin's advice to mount a halt at the Youngza and that he's fighting to the last Chinese in Korea.  This is all consistent with the Second World of Continental Empire.  No great power, neighbors.  All right, once Stalin dies, find a state of his life.  He, there's never as strong a leader in Russia again.  And by this time, Mao has figured out that the Russians don't want a strong China.  He has to buy his time for a while, but he understands what is going on.  And Mao has a growing list of grapes.  It's not only he didn't like Stalin's tributary treatment,  but also Mao thinks with his resume,  that he should become the leader of international communism  and Stalin's success or Nikita Krustov.  It's like no way.  And Krustov doesn't have remotely Mao's resume.  Mao has just put together a continent by reunifying China.  That's not remotely what Krustov's ever been able to do.  And Mao also can't stand either Krustov's domestic or foreign policy.  Domestically, Krustov is all about desnealization.  Well, Mao doesn't like that.  He's got a cult of personality.  He doesn't want to do things like that.  And then Krustov is interested in peaceful coexistence with the West,  or at least, Namely, whereas Mao is in the midst of the cultural revolution,  which is based on a virulial anti-Western foreign policy.  And then, therefore, ever squabbling about who's aiding Vietnam  and the North Vietnam and the Vietnam War,  and who's going to get credit for it?  So, all of that's going on.  Now, Krustov has his own gripes about the Chinese.  He looks around at the United States.  The United States has got basing all over the world.  It's allies, allowed the United States to have bases.  And China has hardly any Russian bases.  These leftover concession areas.  And China wants them back.  And Krustov can't understand this.  And then, what he really can't understand are the two Taiwan straight crises.  In 1954, in 1958, where Mao starts lobbying  ordinance on nationalist islands  that are very close to mainland shores.  And Krustov is apoplectic,  because Mao hasn't given him any advance warning.  And, by the way, this sort of thing could trigger some of the security clauses  of the Sino-Soviet pre-printed treaty with nuclear follow-on effects.  And then, while this is going on, Krustov wants to have  combined subfleet base.  If we're going to take all these risks,  we need to have substantive places.  A Mao says no way.  And then, Krustov has set up and said,  well, you're not going to get the plans for the atomic bomb.  OK, and the whole thing becomes public in 1960  with anger all around.  And the two, Russia and China,  are squabbled incessantly over the Vietnam War.  And the North Vietnamese were interested in getting maximum aid  for both, from both which it did.  And they begged the Chinese to allow the Russians to ship things  overland through China.  So the Chinese felt obliged to do it.  But the terms of that overland trade were just  a food for all kinds of squabbling, it just didn't end.  So the story of the reversal in the balance of power  between Russia and China arose from multiple factors,  doesn't happen all once.  It is both a story of China's rise  and of Russia's decline.  And step one for China is getting its own atomic weapon,  which it does in 1964.  So they can get itself free of Soviet bondage.  And so this is in 1964 after they've detonated  that bomb where Mao goes, OK, there are too many places occupied  by the Soviet Union.  The Russians took everything they could.  We have not yet presented on account for this list  of stolen territory, all the territory I've shown you.  We want it back, Russians, jaw drops, panic.  And the Chinese then are much more aggressive  about what they consider to be their territorial rights.  And there is a border war over territories.  And in particular, this one, island,  jumbo, or domestic island, in the Amor River.  All right, here's how River Reen borders work, international ones.  Under international law, the border is the Thaowegg,  which is the center of the main channel of whatever the river is.  And Russia had followed that with its European borders.  Not with China, it claimed both banks of the Amor.  Well, the Chinese are fed up with them.  And they take jumbo island.  And the Russians are furious.  And they come to the United States.  And they say, would it be OK if we nuke these people?  They're like, no.  So then the Russians scratch their head and they come back  and they go, OK, would it be OK if we use  conventional weapons to blow up their nuclear stuff?  And we go, no, still not OK.  And now gets it.  The one that wants to nuke is your primary adversary.  So there's a reef shuffling of the primary adversaries.  So that formerly the United States was a primary adversary,  both China and Russia.  So that would be a reason for them to cooperate.  Well, now their primary adversaries for each other.  And the United States can play the swing thing with all of this.  And for Russia, it's really devastating having China as an enemy,  because it's going to have to deploy mechanized nuclear arm  troops all along.  It's really long.  Chinese border or central Asia, the works.  And it's already doing this with its European borders and occupying  Eastern Europe, which the Garrison costs are significant.  Imagine if this country had to put those kinds of forces  on our long Canadian and Mexican borders.  It'd be bankrupting.  And their economy was in remains a fraction of ours.  But this breaking up of the earlier version of the bromance,  allows the United States to play the swing role  and then weak cooperate, both Nixon and Mao  think gangging up on Russia would be a good thing.  And overextending Russia financially  by overextending it militarily with all these armaments and things.  So in addition, what's going as part of the China's rise,  are internal reforms under Deng Xiaoping  when he abandoned certain communist principles  of economic management and gets much more productive  agricultural sector and industry in commerce.  And so China's running double digit. 補允起很多過去通貿 看到香港的時間 同時總疫情羹保真 總經法的放棍 政策和仍驚修訂 連出今年 中共將軍盛ién中 當美國蔽佬..... 游泰國 突然如此 回流 全 Hondronic 退燈 美國 推成 被 斗 不 ire 搞 予 許 外 和香港的凱子彻如南京, 和我们的营养人家, 似乎是个从二十年代, 然后在中国中, 劝着美国在美国时, 现在是政治学生, 他们就用这个动作, 但其实他很正在想 现在我们说要拥养人家, 所以如果你说过一个人, 他们是很好的, 说到这些人的事都能够干净, 因为他们仍然不是赶紧, 但他们现在是链行的, 他們還在提供來講 所以GorbidChav在200萬年輕的 1985, Soviet Groeth rights 從一致線上 只有2% less  than U.S. Groeth Right  for the preceding decade  And the compounding effects  of that are pretty horrendous  An addition  other problems  Leana, Brezhnev  was in power  for 18 long years  and not only did he  collect cars  that was apparently  the go-to gift for him  but in addition  he was collecting a bunch of 川普從來是一種關注的 認識因為這是一種雙手的 但是它有一個重要的活動 它不只是共同的活動 如果你看到外出的位置 它有很深刻的機能 它就在說說馬上的外出 變成了一種隱形的 而因為在外出的 links 它的顏色是非常大 5%之外的地方 或是開玩具的地方 所以皮育部很像是假的 都會有一些人都不會做得更重要 And so Gorbachev repeatedly said you know we can't live this way anymore So he wanted and he did initiate political and economic reforms  to try to save communism except  he really ruined the schoolerotic patient doing what he did And there are massive territorial implications for what he did And it's the loss of Empire in Eastern Europe  And also the loss of the ethnically-based constituent yscy始终致国从自新的时候 用了各位华学院努力 会据日本武会 香港讲讲去中国 这首席《母生》会代表 将来经常 Mitgl Pixel 这首席当中 我们健康和公主人 希望是挺聚禁 从于中共这首席 所好 食物叫做 大部分 元hweh 为何想说 具份 遗留 饭 所有的 无为 所有只看 首席 都是全arella ," ,"And then of course, it gets Eastern Europe." 、「 ,"Well, with Gorbachev every°,"  he works as magic, ear down to Kalina'n grad, ,"OK.  That's where Russia's stage, a lot of weapons nowadays  apparently dump a lot of toxic waste.  So, that's what Kalina'n grad is all about.  So, it was significant so that—at the end of 1991,  when Russia's lost everything,  they're down to her a much diminished roomed state, 然後徵人在航台中的對方的光片 Mircus is my banking platform 我本來會用它作用它做過的東西 我用它做到也有螺絲 而是 automatically pay bills 我還沒有減減入這個入壞的 了解我這款國家需要的方式 但我最近已經很會願意 做得很好 其中一這種不同品就更容易作用 所以我想提供給你回得 我所說的 它每次做了一件事 準備了時間更難 又如何使用銅鶔的 的話題是更多的 我就這樣拿走一下這裡的車子 但是也就是在發火車上傳播 然後你能準備進去? 我想了,可以回應用這個講話 只能用一些都是一個人裡面 讓大家看見他們的車子 而來自全民的車子 然後我們有什麼佛特啊 我們也有一點軟軟說做的 不需要配備多了,你要有什麼使用給我買了一些東西 每個人會感覺至非常確定的 其實我很想用兩個用比較大 其實突然出現了還能否幫忙 也能中把那種食物理解 即使夢想給我 買過這款不送到你的工作 還有很多地方的話, 每個人的房間, 都是病毒的大便這樣做, 捎号乱一 贸奥 比 feet in trust  männ酸  stor the ability to run rough shot over others and make them do whatever  it's Russian wants and also when they look at their security they also  look at this way, is that we need this vast territorial extent to be secure.  But they never turn it around so they're always worried about other people  invading them to think, well, do you suppose we pose a threat to anybody else.  I never turn it around that way. 草,去年,唯一是羨定, 這部分是, 萬人, 這部分有一個人, 不小心, 因為他們不舒服, 是小約的融化, 或是大約。 現在教練, 我們在酒室、 從大清, 日本的食物, 這是市場自 2011, 小澳的行動, 都有一個一個不同的所 為何有些特別的活動? 不是, 在弓廿, 拾了東西送給你, 就像 有一個不同的活動, 然後就是  bleachury STOP基址 dabei 整個臀樹磁花 東西 但這 Resources 世界 市值不一定 還不為了 完成 死亡 但涼涉 涼涉  Stefán  Kumagから  server 就會 都好 棉 屁血 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 壹 這枝體的視訊,這個這個的皇上是 當什麼樣的照片, 這枝體是要一些瘋狂的照片 讓它們俾清浪費出現的處理 讓它們在西蘭的西蘭中 有一項記憶的內容 這些地方做成這樣, 這是一種歷史, 這是一種歷史的歷史, 這是一種歷史,這是一種歷史, 你以為我當中執政中的地方 我這裡在這兒 而且我會選擇無論如何, 好幾個代表, 他們每個人都是這些, 在法國其中, 藥豪當然是非常有趣的 感動的樣子 對方學習的關係 也有幾個職業的 經程是一種相當的 情報是一種經常的 她們拿下來的 會提出 整個很好的 因為我們到整個地方那個地方是很棒的 整個地方是很棒的 所以我們是因為日本洋人的洋人 以美人的洋人的洋人 很棒 因為日本洋人是以前的洋人 所以我們很棒的洋人 因為台灣人是有很多洋人 但他們再說 他們是現在的洋人 他們是現在的洋人 他們是最高的洋人 他們在洋人的洋人 他們在洋人的洋人是一起洋人 他們在洋人的洋人 Hungry and Czechoslovakia require Russian troops to hang on to some of their current gains.  So a lot of things go on here.  If you compare to what the West is doing in the United States, the United States has  the Marshall Plan you've heard of it.  Where the United States is pouring aid into our western allies to restore them after the war.  This is what Russia is doing.  They've won the war, so their troops are there.  They never take their troops home.  They're busy running coups.  They're busy shooting anyone who disagrees with them or they send them to the labor camps,  whatever they're going to do.  And then they redistribute every form of wealth there is either through nationalization or collectivization.  And they're imposing this really non-functional economic model on these people.  It's called communism.  It doesn't work.  So you wonder why Eastern Europeans aren't thrilled about a repeat of this?  Well, come on.  All right, moreover, story gets better.  The people who made all this happen include this charmer.  Some of the most toxic people from the Soviet Union.  Andre Vishinsky, who goes to Romania, lucky Romania, is he was running the show trials  that were killing the sending the original Bolshevik leaders summary execution.  What does he do when he gets to Romania?  Well, he appoints the ministers of justice war in the interior.  If you do that, you control the courts, army and police.  And then you can start expropriating everything and nationalizing things.  And you can start eliminating other parties.  And you make Romania trade only with the Soviet Union.  Okay.  All right.  Another toxic personality.  Marshall Klimandovia Votoshilov, who he's another part of the A-list purge team.  What did he done signed loads of execution warrants to his military colleagues,  officers, during the Great Purges, what a great guy.  He's in Hungary, lucky people.  He's not quite as confident as the other one. 這幾年 peacefully在1945 在美衡執行的價值 這個將會安定哈摩 他們以後不要再確定 他們提文遇到講統的 communist ministers 有類的一輪傷散 потер 那一個利用復ğin隊 反答受到了 破備因增稀於 原形但是 全體沒有考慮採取 當然之後 這是1949這些 選擇了 這是石豪的確是其中ою米, 再加上另外一個這個, 而是正在等於多久的觀察, 如果這次是可以說的, 大家還是可以說這些, 因為那裡小時候在這裡, 其實大使這一個比方的觀察, 我是覺得這個真的是要成為了 因為美國的不同, 是全民主人民的, 所以在我們的桌子裡, 越來越快速度, 有一個微强的微强、微强, 很像非常快完成在面前, 所以,微强就像, 我們四個微强,我們現在要把微强弄成, 但是,一般都是必須回答覆, 最細職所掘定的狀態, 但有些見面也是, 也有些提供給全口 eines, 所以,我們是從影響到台灣人 在線上比台灣人目相較低, 所以,很多種人的外出, 所以,越來越快速度避免解中, 不知道都是所有的乘客的 做的 用上它来 但是它直接用上它来 再重量在海外的  gibt detained 它们能够有联用 将校不同地方  inflict的 模avor的 生活的 然后写修直 比意外跟这样  bear's class enemies, collaborators,  also 比較少說你看一下 按個去另一隻那整個� кос漢 說我們也不一樣 是在法律的確實, 在法律不會重視。 沒有,我就想說, 在法律是在法律的確實, 在法律中的一種文化, 也留下這一種文化的確實, 在法律中的文化中的文化中, 也有很深刻的確實, 在法律中的文化中, 在法律中的文化中, 不一樣,他們不一樣, 在法律中的文化中, 他們不一樣, 但是在法律中的文化中, 也不是不一樣。 那些是說他們在他們他們的東西 但是他們他們完全是不頒燈的東西 我們能看到的網路 他們在這一家當中在疫苗中 他們要向他們做這種外津護士 所以他們美國人的人都名 現在他們最近都是要改變 他們在內津護士去克服 他們看到中共幫助他們 然後他們就在香港 自然樂樂的地方 像中國出現海域的中國 很多人都知道他們知道了 他們在地區 以外有個忍息 然後他們在地區 atlion communities, hair trade, flow,changing earn with progress. 共予繁榛,前來教 Massitution etc. 共予繁榛的武之 Bo, 以售我貪款的籌備, 教的靜艾向我會有什麼好處  semi可以解除ose命, 所以他還是開窘, 歷史律系列的獲討做明靜艘的 資料是不行的將柔領者, 的委和公司的有很多案例 And then their divided states of Germany Christophon完了  and translate  You want all your neighbors  quarreling over their  abortos so that Russia can then  set the terms  And that it can  nibble them away  a bite at a time  Or if it can take a whole thing  Goodbye for them  So Russian  National identity is not only about  Empire territorial extent  It's also has  Some big ideas attached to it 原 vlogging instead –怎'd be having such anaget  or positive—  so under the Zars, The idolaters  were again third-run of the Russian Orthodox Church,  third-run was in Moscow.  No, this is News 2.  It shows our morale.  There is a Roman we all know about.  That was  Roman, the one one in the Pope. RM-2-2-1-2的雙串 Test0-1-2的 Bizzantine Empire And that was Constant No öyle, Istanbul So when that falls, The Russians go Tadad, It's Moscow,  not really But they use this Russian-Orthodoxy And spread the Russian Orthodox church back in the day Deep-Into-Eastern Europe So when the Communist get in,  they are not spreading Russian-Orthodoxy They're spreading Communism  The problem for Putin 是 today, neither communism nor Russian orthodoxy or marketable ideology,  so he's just stuck with being a really big place.  That's where his little focus is.  And Russia has a nightmare scenario.  They don't always win these wars.  They lose quite often.  And the Mongol yoke are the yellow peril.  Their terminology, not mine, is the 13th century when the Mongols just swept in.  And the Russian elites became tax collectors for the Mongols and extractive role that is endured.  Do you think that Russians, they extract resources, their own other peoples,  but they're not known for producing wealth.  It's just resource extraction.  And this is some of the legacy of all of that one.  And the Russians have also suffered devastating defeats to Napoleon, in World War I,  in World War II that just devastated Western Russia.  So they've had bad times.  And in our own time, Putin is dumping all of his ordinance on Ukraine,  leaving Siberia wide open to China's ambitions.  So if he keeps the game up, he may well wind up with a Chinese yoke,  and his nightmare will be there for him.  The Chinese also have their own big ideas, not religious ideas,  or empire, but about civilization itself.  The idea, traditionally, the Chinese believe there's only one civilization that would be there,  is it's based on confusionism, that would be a world order unto itself.  And that worked for them for a couple thousand years.  And there are certain pillars of legitimacy that have endured,  or prior originating this, but enduring one.  And one is ethical rule.  Well, that's gone for the Communist Party.  Let's try the next one.  Economic prosperity, whoops, going fast.  That leads the Communist today with territorial expansion.  Well, that's ongoing, with territory,  incursions into India, South China Sea, Ireland building,  and then all these gathering threats to Taiwan.  And in part, what's going on is the Communist Party,  once everyone, too, you want to play the nationalism card,  the same way Putin is.  If you haven't got anything else for you, play Djangoistic nationalism,  because we human beings can be particularly attentive to that one.  And so that if you focus on that,  maybe the Chinese people won't look at the ethical lapses of the Communist Party,  or the fact that they're paychecks aren't going anywhere anymore.  So, good ol Xi, he doesn't have a marketable ideology anymore.  And what's really scary is, Confucianism had just been this enduring feature  of China.  Dynasty's came and went but Confucianism stayed.  Until China was unable to fend off Japan in the first son of Japanese war  that I told you about in the Europeans, in the opium wars, when all of a sudden,  Confucianism just seems totally inadequate.  And so, when enough Chinese ceased believing in Confucianism,  that's when you get the 1911 revolution, and it just vanishes as a organizing principle  for running your government.  And this is the total nightmare, one of the frightening things of the Communist Party  is when people cease believing in Communism.  So when China's nightmare scenario is these horrible periods of chaos,  they're afraid of if the Communists go that China's going to devolve into these civil  wars, these periods of one.  And the second one is that maybe Russia, or the Soviet Union, when it's shattered,  that may well be their fate, that maybe these Communist regimes can't last forever.  So Russia's nightmare scenario is other people invading Russia.  China's nightmare scenario is the collapse of China.  It's two different ways, two different things to worry about.  And the Chinese face a conundrum.  If you no longer believe the economic theories on which communism is based,  well, how do you justify one party rule?  And the Communist Party has tried to soldier on without solving that problem.  And Chinese have, I think, learned a great deal from watching Russians as they play  around with big ideas.  And I think they learned a great deal from Mikhail Gorbachev when he tries to fix communism,  but he winds up killing the patient.  And the Chinese, I think, they're takeaways from what Gorbachev did, is don't hesitate  to deploy the tanks.  If you've got unrest in the streets, you just send tanks, tanks against civilians, it's  a really quick fix.  And make, you want to focus on economic reforms to the extent you can certainly not political  reforms, and you really want to signify your minorities.  Why?  And the Soviet Union, the Russians had had this fiction that all these occupied minority  people wanted to... 它們是很清洗的 這些東西都是好地量華為 而且這產品有很多 但是它們是非常好處的 可是因為它們是很清洗的 而且它們是沒辦法 它們都是雙虛武 可是它們是很清洗的 共產品是非常多的 但它們沒有這種銅碟 它們都是不用交代的 我們是用著同社會的 像是許多的 我覺得這產品是這麼多了 這兩個所有都是 像是很清洗的 它們只是很清洗的 很修正在賣 我覺得這就是在裡面 像是在裡面 這些裡面嗨海海海的 也是相對的 我已經認識了 有個錢的人 看不見 那你就是你如果你响換 你知道嗎? 你知道嗎? 我看得出一個 一般的人 漏壁的 名譚 走到東京的 投資 英國  професс別 北京堂的 同學 都是 民權 同學 內靜靜的 基礎 是 年輕兒 大家 很會 世界 神經病 是  spac作 深宮 原本 黄瀜 四星 海 殼 海 麻將 大橋 以及 海 海 岳 海 海 海 海 海 海 海 海 海 他們會變成一邊一! 他們把他們的結局都在隔離 被他們的阻止與非常多國民的反應 還原來在被男人抗議 把所有裡面的運動 都是抓捕地獲得的 反應 攻擊力 也要有相當的開動 這些選手的人 而叫做敵人的 中央 你們的選手 我看他們的選手 所有的貨物 很特別的 有一些詞詢, 我們詐詳詞還是詐詳詞, 我們詐詞是詐詳詞, 我們常會覺得, 我們都概念說, 要到了年輕人, 我們能將陪他走逆滅 來到近日, 對他們的活潤來順說, 到此外, 當然,我們都想跟世界駕駛 跟世界駕駛, 我說, 當時不確實  invigorating沛樂磯, 他們們已在解釋一切, 他們未知能夠在諸如此, 不是我想的一切 美國監控制警,  infringes個太大的管理犯案, 被被過折的惡者, 提及到了各政有些疑情, 以及下載有些守護體、 跟駿柱部能執行, 或者包括查案,  που談的� careless, 他們已經被車騷補, 他當活動性來自予做 因為 elections are an incredibly powerful way to give authority to a government  and this is where nationalism comes in  and the Chinese Communist Party, the Russians likewise  are trying to use jingoistic nationalism to stoke up popular loyalties  and also to deflect people from domestic problems to go,  oh look at the hated outsiders, right?  And they aren't the only country to do the sort of thing  as you blame outsiders, it's all the immigrants fault or whatever  and the problem with all of this when the Chinese did it  is in 1980 right after the tenement massacre the Chinese Communist Party decided  to rewrite all the textbooks so they're no longer going to focus on class  enemies but they're going to be focused to use jingoistic nationalism,  they're going to focus on evil Japanese, evil Americans and focus things that way  well the problem with nationalism is it's a very  heavy drink if you invite too much, it clouds the judgment,  moreover it repels minority people within China's empire  who are not interested in Han nationalism.  It frightens neighbors to equal coordinate with each other and think  find big powers to counterbalance this mess and it also impedes the de-escalation  of unforeseen international dust stops or crises.  So with Putin's latest adventures,  one would assume that the Chinese have some real thoughts about  what's going on now and in Putin's case he is thrown away the Soviet  a denim to the rules for continental empire, what was that one?  No hot wars.  You think about Soviet rulers, they were all  veterans of World War II through Leonardo Brezhnev  and they understood the wars easy to get into hard to get out of very unpredictable.  So it's for them most proxy wars and they loved it  when the United States got into hot wars.  What is not to like about the Korean War and the Vietnam War  with the United States just tied down  and to Americans tearing each other's eyes out about these things?  Great, great, great.  Brezhnev stayed out of it until after Brezhnev's stroke,  watch that's when they make the big booboo in Afghanistan  and they go into Afghanistan and then all of a sudden we can have loads of fun  giving stinger missiles to the other sides,  inflicting costs on the Russians and the person who wanted to get into Afghanistan  is Yuri Andropov who was not a veteran, the uniform military of Russia  said don't go into Afghanistan while Andropov and friends ignored it,  did their thing.  If you look at Putin, he is risen to power on a diet of hot wars.  He comes to power in the early phase of the Second Chechen War  where he levels the Chechen capital of Grozny  and leaves the most of the rest of Chechenia an environmental waste zone  but he sorts that one out and then he gets quite popular for his war  with Georgia in 2008 where he detaches south of Session,  Haziah from Georgia.  Now he wants to build a naval basin of Haziah because he's having trouble with his base on Crimea.  And then when he eliminates term limits for himself in 2012,  which isn't very popular in Russia, he solves that by going into Ukraine  in 2014 and walks off with about 7% of Ukrainian territory at very little cost  and Russians think that's great.  So if you look at these little stepping stones,  this is why Continentalists look at it, he got all these little places lined up.  Now you want to color it in and that's where Ukraine comes in in 2022.  So Putin wants to reverse all these territory losses,  when he wants the green things and the purple things and other  if he wants to do the Napoleonic war as I suppose go all the way to Paris,  who knows?  And here's how he looks at NATO or doesn't look at it.  NATO, look at when people join, there are two great big periods of Excession to NATO.  One is in the early Cold War when all the smaller countries of Europe,  which is everybody right, we're all smaller than Russia,  but the Europeans join to protect themselves from Soviet imperialism  and then at the end of the Cold War, when the Soviet satellites can finally slip the leash,  I've given you all the reasons why they stampede in to NATO.  It is not NATO tricking them to join, they're stampeding in for excellent reasons.  They've been proven right.  And then with Putin when he does works as magic, the second time around Ukraine in 2022,  this is when the Finns and the Swedes decide neutrality is not going to cut it.  We've got to join NATO, but when Putin looks at this, he goes,  oh, they're coming at us and arcs.  Well, this is a ludicrous Russia has posed an existential threat to these places forever.  No one today wants to invade Russia, who'd want it?  It's full of Russians, we want them to stay home, right?  There's no one there who wants Russia.  So the Russians like to gaslight everybody else, like you're the problem, it's been very effective.  Lots of Americans will talk about NATO expansion.  It's like, oh, this is why Putin went to Ukraine.  It's you did NATO expansion.  He's gaslighting everybody, Russians are the problem.  And also, it is their totally dysfunctional domestic system that offers everybody else.  Nothing but problems, instead of focusing on that and fixing it,  so they can be a productive member of the rest of the world.  They're not doing that, they're just invading other people.  So back to the real problem.  What are the prospects of a bromance with these two?  Barring World War III, which would be the great powers go at it.  If the great powers go at it, you might well superglue these two.  And then if that happens, whatever side is losing, might well use a nuclear weapon.  And then we're going to have toxic plumes everywhere.  So we at better get our diplomacy right,  because there are really serious consequences for getting it wrong in this particular era,  where at the beginning of a second Cold War,  with a leadership that has not been chastened by surviving World War I,  the great depression in World War II, which are the grownups who did a very effective job  dealing with the early first Cold War.  We haven't got those people anymore.  So if you look at primary adversaries, primary theaters,  you don't want them to align for your enemies,  because if they do, it'll be the core of the night.  Currently, Vlad the Bad has a Ukraine fixation.  Xi Jinping has got a Taiwan fixation opposite ends of Eurasia.  Xi Jinping is also causing India problems in doing South China Sea Island by building,  but they're an opposite ends of their two empires.  So far, nothing aligns with these two.  And even in a World War,  it's their primary theaters probably would not align  the same way that the Axis primary theaters did not align,  and they might well disperse their resources in different directions.  But the problem was, we have a lot of people with nuclear weapons now.  You really don't want to do the hot war.  So if the West and others manage things correctly,  I've given you a huge historical legacy of fraud relations,  play your cards appropriately,  and these two will take care of each other.  And the rest of us can, if we do it right. 他沒有聽過什麼話,我選了這些東西, 但我常常出來講講什麼話給我們說了 我們都覺得太可憐, 這些人都發現他們當年 但是他們也有什麼話, 他們沒有說什麼話, 但是我想問他們, 他們都有什麼話, 他們很像什麼事情, 他們嘗試翻譯、 很快樂, 他們會有一些話ста銀行 文化, 裏面的活動是這樣為了, 這會變得 format 像的熱信就像影響的戰鬥 很壞的力量, 像一樣的活動是在更重要的化因素 不確實是會很好的的, 但因為語言不及, 若卻會不會為了反面, 若卻會發生不作好久的事情, 然後還可能在可能就不要必然 就把割掉的什麼東西 在我就離證書 留在那邊 女兒也irl了她說 因為她的暴躁 戀宇中 冷靜征 而不合理 是最愛的 合理的 她倒了 她的渾體 她讓她說 她很遂憂 覺得能夠 成功 她已經中了 她們是非常好 多了 她在陪她 讚我 她們仍然 她要變成 她們是更大的 她們很遂憂 好死亡者就好 的秘密 安保安保管理 共同憧憬 人民和人民 他們都很光致 他們都很光致 生活在做 他們仍在做 他們會在這些 同憬 他們都覺得 這是什麼 人家在拍攝 什麼 他們都覺得 在一個月下,在抗議上的職業中, 把回合的原來就會更精神, 即使所有的經驗, 廢話會有關的作品, 以及有關於日本, 在日子之旅遊中, 1904-1905, 他會被去夯敬, 就會轉進去歷史, 他們曾經過退休日常, 引進出了一個人, 會被打穿上的噁心, 而中, 然後又被推出, 然後被推出, 然後被推出, 它在演出車輪約上市場 因為在外觀中,最大型的車輪車 因為有超級大型的車輪車 因為它有些人在市場上, 它會變成變成比較好一點 所以它在市場上 外觀中,它會變成了小型車輪車 然後它會變成比較乾的車輪車 所以它就會變成比較乾的車輪車 然後它會變成比較乾的車輪車 所以它會變成比較乾的車輪車 所以它會變成比較乾的車輪車 来运行会到海农法庭农业 如果我们再来运行行的 不能和农法庭农大 等我们再来运行敦 我们会再来运行,闭运行 所有你都算有回事 再来绝对中国人他们都会帮助 然后我们会猜的 你会向我回家 然后我们会向他 回家 对我们会救援什么 人頭是被 elected for China and World War II的 Hello,when China was a failed state and it wrecked Japan China has an appellation that's multiple of ours  an industrial base that是 multiple of ours  why on Earth would you ever wanna take on them alone  I鏡 yet many scenes 之后是用第一次的方式, 是用此演出的东西途向你下方待会的, 是用这种东西途向我上方一来的途是途上的。 然后这个六个地方, 他下降到那里所田的地方, 和他下降到六个月会做的方法, 他们只会发生了这些例子, 其实他是中途的方法, 我們就要用這陣子來說 所以,我們現在的好處是很好的 所以,謝謝你,謝謝你 這就是我的所謂的 謝謝你,謝謝你,謝謝你 謝謝你 提醒石,這次本質是相當低的 其來的利用 但照片的這個, 第一款注射超級低的 地點在其中的情況下 所以,在獨自做的 最低的施定, 消息了一段時間 流石以上是最低的 而獨自推銷的 多數40% 所以, 以後第1元 廣播和關心的 壞物, Label Box is brought in a team of previous Math Olympiad winners, to develop brand new Amy and HMMT style problems, to the models couldn't have possibly memorized, along with clever variations that made brute force approaches, computationally infeasable for the model. Label Box also mapped out the model strengths and weaknesses, for example, was it better add domains like common atorics or algebra, and waited, the final fine-tuned data towards the areas that needed the most to work.  There's no shortcut here, Label Box just scrutinized benchmarks at the single data role level, to ensure that their customers models were learning and improving as effectively as possible.  You can learn more at labelbox.com slash twerkash.  OK, first question, I want to understand the role of ideology in the Sino-Soviet split, so these are the two major communist countries in the world.  They have this big ideological role-training mission, we're going to spread communism around the world, and that isn't enough to prevent some war over in 1969, literally just islands in the middle of a river, right?  There's nothing super consequential at stake here, so why didn't the fact that they were both these communist countries do more to cement the relationship?  Well, I gave you all these bad things that Russia had done to China, which are, they're not small things, and then isn't the problem with communism is that the economics of it don't actually work.  And that fundamentally these two countries are continental powers, they're continental empires, and sure they change out ideologies, the ideology of the jazar changes out to communism and China's changing out Confucianism for communism.  But the principle that each one should be king of the roost, that hasn't changed, and that would be a mutually exclusive proposition of who's going to run Asia and then your Asia, right?  Because they have a shared address right this long border, and also communism, you're supposed to have a whole, it's supposed to take over the whole world, right?  And we're supposed to have a classless society, right? And that's why we don't even worry about governments and things because they're eventually going to melt away. Well, that's all nonsense.  And as things go on further and further, you have dictators more and more entrenched, and they're using communism, which is another piece where it's just amazing about the big lie.  Whether Stalin said something, if the lie's big enough, people will believe you, that it's just so out there, it's so preposterous, they go with it, which is this notion that the Soviet Union is, that it's the West or these imperial powers, right?  And we buy this, that they're not the ones, but if you look at it, I've given you the data, and then this other one in our own time, this lie about, oh, it's the West, it's NATO expansion, this explains Putin, I've given you the data.  It's nonsense, it's now why the Russians feel obliged to take other people's territory, part of it is this feeling good while other people squirm, there's that aspect, and they're not the only people who do those sorts of things.  But it's also from this being on the plains of Eurasia over history, people have invaded you, and so you have an established paradigm of how you deal with other people that is deep seated over thousands of years.  So I can't totally answer the question because there are a lot of Russians and a lot of Chinese who's decisions together aggregate to what they do.  So I want to understand, say, Stalin's decisions in particular, in the case of telling the communist during the Chinese Civil War, that you can go below the Yang XI river, so that he can split out the Chinese, so the communist and the nationalist in China and leave China weak.  So we know from all the actions in Stalin's life that he was a devoted communist, right? He does collectivization almost destroys the regime because he's devoted to communist.  At the same time, and so communism says that there has to be this worldwide revolution at some point, if there is a world where revolution, there will be other powerful communist countries.  So that's implied in the nature of what a world of communist revolution is, but at the same time he doesn't seem communist enough to want China to become fully communist, he hears more about real geopolitics.  So I tell me about how he is version of communism as Russians invented it, or actually they didn't Marx invented it, but there are the guys who think, well, we operationalize it, so we should run it forever.  So of course it's going to be Russia is going to be the big communist country, so in a bunch of Chinese upstarts from their point of view are claiming, no, no, no, it's so we're going to run the show.  But did Stalin, so as a communist, he thought, okay, there's going to be at some point, the whole world is going to be coming. 他發生什麼話呢? 然后 概念音乐的中国文化 它是直接接触了 当然也是在出现事情的它是对的 它自然有事模式 那个办法在硬的背景 很多人不是用它的风险的东西 因为它被他们关注过去 我们看到它的当中的东西 我们看到它在在门尔吃了 所以我们大概没讲过试试  Swami说一分钟 53, 如果重點沒有1萬元, 讓他們來看 雖然是抽筆, 但他們忠諾的 主要是正義或下筆, 問他們 《恍然總論》, 但他們在外國 這首的敵人, 特別的遷孕 這是不實從重點聖誤 這是這麼一個理解 因為其實他們沒有覺得 像他紹看出在他們的工作 他們發現 他們念的聖誤  trembling 我是胲臟 Yes there won't have any crowsheps The Crevon says the grievances you mentioned  but still exists I think grievances will still exist I think Stalin's death Dictator's death prefer  we can give their systems  because they have no good session So that means guaranteed  a catfight fight royale going on 所以那's what you want to wait for  for impudent, eventually the man will die  one way or another.  And there will be a catfight royale  for what happens to him.  So I don't know, Stalin was a pretty old enough guy  when he died and Russians had those days  had a pretty lousy diet.  And I can't remember if he smoked his generation  mostly dead.  So I don't know how the future would have run  with a good old uncle Joe there for longer.  I can't, the Korean war would have still gone on longer.  It's really his death, why that war ends.  So then with the Korean war goes on and on and on.  I don't know what the implications are for us or for now.  This I think is a really interesting thing to consider  from this lecture that, in retrospect,  maybe one of the most important things,  if not the most important thing that happened in the 20th century,  is the Chinese Civil War.  At the time, you wouldn't think of this as a,  especially the world where two has just happened,  you wouldn't think of this as if you were living in 1948  or 1948 or 1949.  You wouldn't think of this as a main thing happening in the world.  But given that we know in retrospect,  this is a really big country with a huge population.  We should be paying a lot of attention  to its internal political development.  And I wonder if we should apply the same logic today  where there's other countries with huge populations  where we don't think a lot about what's happening  in India or Nigeria.  I mean, I really couldn't tell you the first thing about Nigeria.  Even though I know that it's a big country  with a huge population.  Let's not try, because I don't really think about it either.  But on the China, the Chinese Civil War,  there was an understanding that it was a really big deal.  And that's why Roosevelt and the British  are just thinking he's laughable.  He keeps trying to treat trying to like a great power  and the British are going,  they're not a great power, Franklin, not remotely,  but he wants to bring them into the Cairo conference  where the one he brings them in.  And he also wants to include them as the big.  He wants them to be a veto member,  wielding member of the United Nations,  which by China's military status, there's just no way  that, but Roosevelt is looking,  there's no Japan out there.  We want to have something in Asia to counter balance.  But then when you get to the Chinese Civil War,  Americans who have fought some big wars,  they're looking at it going,  it is not feasible for us to alter this outcome.  And therefore, the thinking was,  I think it's the Eisenhower archives, anyway,  that if they live together long enough,  they would go at each other eventually.  Okay, I want to zoom in on one particular episode  during this period that I think it's fascinating.  So in 1936, the communist in China  kidnapped Shanghai Shek,  who's the leader of the nationalists.  And they're about to kill him.  And Stalin, radios in over the commentary,  and he says, no, you can't kill Shanghai Shek,  even though he's your enemy,  he's been massacaring you.  You had to let him go.  And his exchange in Shanghai Shek has a promise  to create a united front against the Japanese.  Now there's 30,000 communist guerrillas  when they're fighting the Japanese at this period.  And there's 1.5 to 2 million nationalist troops.  So the communist get to claim the prestige  of fighting the Japanese with a fraction of the effort.  And it just seems like a brilliant move in Stalin's part  in retrospect, because if they had Phil Chankei Shek,  the nationalist forces might have dissolved.  There would be a public government  that's all by Japan.  That's why we did it.  That's why we did it.  It just seems like Stalin makes a lot of right calls  in the theater in Asia at this time.  What is he understanding?  Big picture that lets him hold on.  There are dictators all over the world  who stay in power for a long time.  Do not dismiss their ability to stay in power.  They're surfing quite a way  for wherever they live, right?  Of people who butcher each other  with great regularity,  I would suspect the most,  and this is suspect,  as how would I have the evidence,  that many of these long-term dictators  have EQs that are off the charts, right?  They look at them.  And when you come in the room,  they just got feeling  nowhere they're going to cap you or not.  And if they get a few extra people,  so what, right?  They just so they get rid of all the people  who are going to cause them problems.  And incredible abilities.  Also what Stalin does,  I think Saddam Hussein imitated  but I can be wrong about that one,  is you have multiple security agencies  with overlapping jurisdictions.  And so no one quite knows who's running the show  and who's in power,  but they're all funneling information to Stalin,  so he has better information than anybody else.  So you can use one one day and another another day,  which explains how you can,  all the heads of whatever,  it's equivalent of the KGB, it comes and goes,  most of the early heads of that wind up getting shot  by their success.  So you think they notice a pattern.  So they're very good at staying in power.  They're really good at managing that problem.  It does not bring prosperity.  That comes from the world of maritime trade,  of going falling by international laws.  Instead of capping your trade partner,  you're not going to get a second trade deal.  If you do that,  it's just so much more wealth creating  this alternate universe.  But that's not where these continents are.  I think there's still something  a little under explained about it.  Probably.  Lots of things are hundreds.  But in the sense,  look, Hitler's another dictator  and he does,  forget about having these moves where he decides  who exactly,  don't kill this kidnapped person  because it'll be a bad idea in the long run.  In the opposite,  he's declaring war against America,  but even when he doesn't have to,  he's just making these crazy moves.  A Stalin is like a special thing to explain.  How does communism make you,  if it's not just communism,  it's something else that's making him a deft,  which is a little factor.  But you can do this in retrospect,  go crazy move,  because no one realized  that the US productive base  could do what it did.  Americans didn't even know, right?  So you tell me right now  how the future is going to turn out.  Who's got,  this is where if you flip it,  when you look at history,  you think it had to turn out that way,  because you can reverse engineer  something at least a plausible story  of why you wind up where you did.  And it may not even be the right story,  but it yields the correct answer,  so you think you've got it.  But if you look at the future,  how's this thing going to end  with Xi Jinping and Putin?  We don't know.  And then after it took a,  oh, well,  something is profoundly stupid  based on subsequent events,  but we don't know now, right?  And it's because,  oh, well,  there's a Russian proverb,  which is Trujiahuma Pachompiki,  which is someone Trujiah,  someone else's Uma mind,  Pachompiki darkness,  is that you also only don't know  what other people are thinking.  You make your guesses,  but then they do things.  When you show the maps of China in 1850,  Russia also in 1850,  especially in 1900,  the Russia in China are still big countries today.  But if you just look at Qing Dynasty, China,  it's just like,  it's overwhelmingly big.  Seeing with SARS-R as Russia,  before the rest of the tough treaty,  it makes you think that it's,  at various points to history,  at most points to history,  China was technologically dominant over the last,  except during this one crucial period of the day,  18th and 19th century,  with the Industrial Revolution in high gear,  which changes the whole world.  So just reinforces the idea  that how important it is to be at the technological frontier,  especially at historically proxy times.  And of course, we're in San Francisco.  We,  many of us here believe that this is especially,  yeah.  Croxy time in sort of the development of technology.  Yeah, maybe we should continue investing  instead of canceling all the science,  research projects,  and what will be the long-term effects of doing this, right?  You're thinking of America's great strengths.  It's a lion's system.  Our great strengths also used to be  being at the head of innovation.  So we're going to eliminate those things  and think it's going to go well for us.  Okay, I want to ask about your,  I don't know what you're doing. 但是我都知道智慧, 但是我其實覺得 在這件事情的事情中, 今兒也有一套會斷掘, 所以我做什麼, 就這麼介意給我們三少的機會 他們會不會自然 他們會覺得真是挺好的, 很動作, 我們很困難, 但是我只要怎麼不自然知道, 但是你們會覺得 對我們的事情, 對我們的事情, 但我們還是會長期 我們由這個問題做, 她說了非常多 很多人的事情, 但是她有很多地方, 那個是很多財經。 所以是這種財經所解, 然後所解, 他們生活的事情, 他還未更, 他們現在毀了錢的起碼 和不同貪酒 這真的以怎麼結束 頂個點沒信變化 還是廢話非常快遙大 根據基因的可以解散 我不知道為什麼它的話 原來是什麼呢? 每次發生 pho electrode, 它在這裡建壓過一開始 被浪過рач, 我們完全沒有應該說 Hundreds of people 我们是一个人的猪犯方勇对引寡的 毕竟对方勇对种的 特别有一种人 但结果是什么 香港人的猪犯方勇对人的猪犯 它超允许这些好美食 看得到一句 如果看得完 看得不太好 得到几个最低 太高 所以他在成功上 跟这个他们总理是 就她不敢说他们 不過他在軍隊模ctor上oping 但 placed在亡北辦舞台 是夯行的 下距離獨候關Mr. 一陣子 他什麼時候被爆的 輪廖 來自不超之的 但一實闌控 談 progressed 失户 一符推出 努力 倫大職 ragt 是否可以夠 解創 別人夠 唔的維俄休人, 但佢招杀人怒然, 但我唔將請出 照理他們 走化呢, Oh, 唔寽邁�트, 9年而去就會 表示呢, 亦如此, 才咁向其上 他當然解釀 亦特別只 Olympic 執B 怎麽你看, 你講過好錢, 所以如果 Supando, 到自己來照 tactics, 你仍然敢進一邊, 因為我不敢得奉 In China, I suspect it will be the opposite  It will be they pay him less and less  For whatever, it is he wants  If he really quarters himself  Continues to quakow when Помpe himself  And you crée.....  That these terms of trade  I'll get more and more in China's favor  And I guess its does that look like  The bromance ending  Right? So North Korea isn't increasingly  We're as many as ever  In a very desperate position  That's quite a bromance  But..  Is that how you end up 就是有很多人在說 但你想說沒有什麼暫時 說沒有什麼人在香港 因為沒有什麼人在香港 那個時候沒有什麼事情 沒有什麼事情在香港 還有什麼事情 你知道香港 那這個是什麼事情 那其實他是沒有什麼事情 如果可以攻略 許靈適合 讓香港的鄉中 是最差的 現在是作為不公平的 因為想法 所以現代的 我們來做的 好 那是世界 很貴的 那是我們在做的 有 簡單說 其實還有一個 程度 我們就不是提示 沒有 但是 因為 那 Chinese will try to get a very good terms of trade for resources and be  meaning can give very few things back in 1931  when Japan attacks Manchuria  Japan common deers the Chinese Eastern railway  which the Treaty of Fortsmouth in 1905 said that it was supposed to be an eruscious  purview and people in the Polybure are telling Stalin look we got to be aggressive against this  and Stalin says look I don't want I don't want to raise tensions against  another great power let's just let this lie let's keep tensions low  and this is actually quite similar to what happens with splitting up Poland in 1939  and then Barbara Rosa where you can both theaters he makes this calculation that  I'm going to let certain things slide so that I don't have to face off against this great  powers on my border I don't want to go to war with them in the case of Japan it works  because Japan decides to attack China and not Russia in the case of obviously Germany  oh yeah yeah and Germany he's trying to run the same script on  right um and he thinks that this is going to work for him but that's what the  Molotov Revent Shop Pact is about and uh not remotely you need it to read  mind comp to understand it's no you're a menu item for Hitler he's eventually going to  come around and also I think it's in our own day where we don't really want to absorb  the bad news like I can be wrong but I believe that Putin wants not only all of Ukraine  which he says he wants but also he wants the Baltic states and he wants to keep on going  and so this is profoundly bad news because if that's the case then it means for Europeans at least  they're going to have to be diverting all kinds of resources to this problem which is  something they don't want to do right because like us they're indebted to and there are  other things they would prefer to spend their money on and we don't like the bad news that  actually this is where we're at and so you're going to make nasty tradeoffs so Stalin tries  to work the same magic it's Stalin thinks it's going to work for him and he doesn't get it he  becomes the menu item for Hitler and it just about wrecks him but it works beautifully against  so it's interesting to see like oh it kind of makes sense why he thought it would work  because otherwise operation he's failure to anticipate Operation Barbara so you know he  when he's getting information that the Germans are lining up millions of men along this huge  border he's like this is British and disinformation and he uses the exact same logic when  Japan is in Bating Manchuria that like the idea that we had to fight Japan is British information  disinformation sorry so even though obviously was a mistake it helps us to understand why he thought  this way well I think there's another concept that's useful as cooperative adversary and I  introduced this before it doesn't mean the adversary wants to cooperate with you but they just  don't play their cards particularly well so we're talking about China that has had all of  those rebellions I told you about and civil wars and regional wars it doesn't have these strong  government institutions so it is much easier to script right a place like that to have them do  things that are antithetical to their interests so you got a cooperative adversary Chinese aren't  trying to cooperate but from a Russian point of view they might be a cooperative adversary  versus Hitler where Germany has all kinds of institutions and all kinds of well-educated  people and so that a hoodwink in Hitler is going to be much more difficult than whoever he's  dealing with in China in this period. An interesting connection to make between World War II  and this Russia Chinese relationship is that the way that we use Russia as basically this  reservoir of military men that we can just like ship ship armaments to and they can do the  dying for us it's similar to how Russia uses China in the war against Japan is that well they're  not actually during that war shipping that much to China but no they're in war yeah so there's this  interestingly Russia is doing to them the kind of alliance that we had with Russia during World  War II well think about today it's like the Korean war in reverse because China's dribbling out  aid to Russia Russia is actually getting wrecked by Ukraine right the death rate is  Russia's got what is it three times the population or something of Ukraine but it's the death rate  that it's suffering is really high and these are only children this is no longer the  10 children six children peasant families in Russia and it's so you look at it from Xi Jinping although  longer this goes on at the better just let Putin keep on working his magic and I get to sell them  stuff again to lower the prices of resources because the man's desperate and Putin will find  himself under a Chinese joke that he does not like and then at some point the Russians will  reassess and I don't think they'll like that I don't the Russians fancy themselves being Europeans  and have a whole I believe racist package that goes with the Chinese so that they won't  like that whole situation I don't know how long it takes them to do whatever they're going to do  so a lot of things in foreign policy you're not going to solve it you're not going to  their huge countries there's no way you're going to solve it but you need to figure out how to  manage it so it take have a blast shield so that whatever fallout comes from their toxic whatever  they're doing it minimizes how it hits your friends and partners and this is why  you should be focusing on maximizing the economic growth of your friends and partners because that is the  only effective way to deal with them if you go to alone I mean who deals with a bully alone always  gang up on them right I mean really why would you ever want to go alone with a bully you'd  want to go in with lots of friends and this is what the World War II generation so the Marshall  plan you look at it you could never get something through that like Congress now right and yet  it's passed overwhelmingly in Congress because people get it that you have to spend a real money  and then the European economies recover how are they going to do it 於是因為太多了吧, 會有什麼重拶的事情, 所以教它們覺得 你希望措施中國人在測試 或是總盡量有什麼好多 這是在外面, 我以為好多我理由寒 然後你會如何? 我特質地理, 公開你买什麼東西? 你能想理? 好,我以為 別想想你买什麼東西, 其實是我很想說的, 因為我最喜歡塞膝褲 哈哈哈 ة, thanked you all very much for coming  it is still fun to be able to do these things with the live audience 嗯, and not trapped inside uh, Garct Studio Room 嗯, we hope I hope we see you guys again on Friday  when we're doing the lecture on the proper way to do warm termination  and then next Tuesday which is about  um, where I should have lost the cold warm  See you on Friday  thank you, Sarah hi everyone I hope you enjoyed that episode if you did the most helpful thing you can do  it just share it with other people who think might enjoy it's also helpful if you leave a rating or comment  on whatever platform you're listening on  if you're interested in sponsoring the podcast  you can reach out at  tokarchash.com slash advertised  otherwise i'll see you on the next one

---
*Collected by: George on 2026-04-20*
